[CARLA] From what I hear,
the issue of the second queen
and consort has been settled.
[LISCIA] Even though you're
locked down here in the dungeon,
somehow you stay caught up.
[CARLA] The guards
have nothing better to do
than share the latest gossip.
What I don't know is
how it makes you feel.
I'll tell you what I told Aisha.
Souma's numbers of
queens and consorts
will only increase.
Once that happens,
the power dynamic
will keep becoming
even more complicated.
These days,
having kindred s--
I didn't ask what
you thought, Liscia.
I wanted you to tell me
how you felt about it.
Just between us,
it stung a little in here.
Did you ever end up seeing
Duke Carmine before...
I didn't.
When I found he
took his own life,
I was taken aback at
how at peace I felt.
It's not that I don't
feel sad he's gone.
I mean, my heart is
broken in pieces.
However, I had a feeling
things would turn out
the way they did.
Is that right?
I guess you could
call it a hunch.
Something told me Duke Carmine
would choose to perish
along with the darkness
that had pervaded
the kingdom.
And because he's so stubborn,
Souma would have no
choice but to accept
his commitment.
In the end, that's what
the two people I think
the world of decided on.
So in spite of my pain
and my sadness,
I have to remain strong.
Otherwise, it would be an
affront to their resolve.
You're serious?
That's how far you're
prepared to go?
Then I should be
the one to tell you
there's no point coming
down here to see me.
That has nothing
to do with this!
You're still alive, aren't you?
This can go any number of ways!
"I'm behaving just
like a coward would."
That's what the king
said to me during
the Battle of Van.
Huh?
The war may be over, but
he hasn't stopped fighting.
For you and his family.
On the battlefield,
I was able to see firsthand
the weight of everything
he's carrying.
What're you saying?
No matter how much
you want to intercede,
I won't let you.
Don't do this
to yourself, Carla!
Duke Carmine has already
given his life to cast light
on the darkness
within our kingdom!
There's no point in making
a martyr of yourself!
It may look that way,
but that's not what I'm doing.
I don't want to be a burden.
Not anymore.
While I live, I'll only be a
weight on all your shoulders.
[LISCIA] Duchess Excel Walter,
for distinguishing yourself
in this recent war, your
appeal has been granted.
The right to trial for Castor
Vargas and Carla Vargas
has been transferred from
the Royal Court of Elfrieden
and granted to Provisional
King Souma instead.
Let's begin.
This trial overseen by
the king is now in session.
Prime Minister, before we
proceed any further,
would you read the charges
against the accused?
Here are the indictments:
Former General Castor Vargas
and his daughter, Carla,
failed to recognize
His Majesty King Souma's
claim to the throne,
choosing to rebel.
These actions warrant
the charge of treason.
A fit punishment for
this crime is as follows:
"Forfeiture of territory,
property, and execution."
There is no denying that
these two have committed
some foolish actions.
It should be made perfectly
clear that they did not
plot to usurp the throne.
Their loyalty to King Albert
and their friendship
with Georg Carmine
led to their belief
that the kingdom was in
peril and must be defended.
The fact His Majesty's
throne was relinquished
by King Albert makes
your point moot.
For a retainer to harbor any
misgivings is just inexcusable.
This change in leadership not
only threw off the Castors,
but left the people in
a state of confusion.
I think that the fault lies
partly with Your Grace
for not addressing
their concerns.
Let us not forget,
despite scale of operations,
no lives were
lost in the assault.
Majesty, it would be a shame
if you would sentence
the two of them to death now.
Well, Castor, what do you
have to say in your defense?
I've only one thing.
While I started the war,
Carla did nothing
but follow my orders.
But Father!
I will assume all punishment
for her onto myself.
Therefore... Highness.
I beseech you to take my life
and spare my daughter!
[CARLA]
You can't!
[SOUMA sighs]
[SOUMA] It's impossible to
overlook the fact that Carla
was the one who led
the air squadron.
The truth is, she raised
the flag of rebellion.
Surely she knew the
consequence of her actions.
Carla, do you have anything
to say in your defense?
I do not.
And you're absolutely
sure of that?
Very well, there is one thing.
I apologize for
my lack of clarity.
[SOUMA] Aren't you going
to beg for forgiveness?
No, I will not.
Please, sentence me as you will.
Very well.
Now, as for the rest of you,
what do you think is
an appropriate judgment
for these two?
After all, you've heard
their words and I would like
to hear your
unreserved opinions.
Majesty! You make it sound as
though their guilt has already
been decided before
the trial has concluded!
Who is that man speaking?
Piltory Saracen.
Head of the House of Saracen.
I regard this as the setting
to determine the severity
of one's crimes.
The accused made
their stance clear:
Yes, they have agreed
to submit to any form
of punishment.
However, that should not
be taken as an admission
of their guilt!
[OWEN laughing]
Well said, indeed!
Young Saracen speaks truth!
That's Owen Jabana,
head of the House of Jabana.
Prime Minister, please.
Duke Vargas has been
keeping the kingdom safe
for over a hundred years.
Long before we were even born!
And I do believe that
fact should be taken
into consideration!
What are you arguing?
That we reduce his sentence?
Nothing of the sort.
Duke Vargas is ruined.
He has already lost
his status and honor,
and yet you're still
demanding more.
Some would call taking
his life and the life
of his daughter bloodthirsty.
Don't you think the sentence
is a bit too severe?
So we're to forgive
the traitors.
Is that what you're saying?
[OWEN] I think it would
be regrettable not to.
Duke Vargas could serve
the kingdom for another two
or three hundred years!
There is no one in the
kingdom better suited
to lead the air force
into battle than the man
here on trial.
That's the point I wish to make.
Your Majesty!
Like you said!
If one possesses an
aptitude, you'll find a way
to make use of it!
Are we prepared to lose
talent this hard to find?
Whatever your decision,
I stand by my fri--
Well? What do the
rest of you think?
The law is the law.
If we forgive this treason,
t'would set a poor example
for other retainers.
Both of them were fools
to defy Your Majesty
and will be of no use
to you henceforth.
These acts of treason are
a blot on the reputation
of the nobility.
Your Majesty, please
pass your just decree.
[NOBLEMEN chattering]
If I may!
Yes it's true,
the law is the law.
Yet, if you apply it strictly,
it will work against you!
Are you prepared to lose
the hearts of the people?
As for myself, how strictly
the law is enforced
doesn't interest me.
Sire, I was merely curious
about his character--
[SOUMA]
Kill them.
[blade slicing]
[SOUMA]
Machiavelli's The Prince.
It's been called
"the devil's book."
In the few hundred years
since it was first published,
it has come under attack
by the Christian church.
A section particularly
singled out for criticism
is chapter eight.
It's entitled "Concerning
Those Who Have Obtained
a Principality By Wickedness."
Further along, in chapter 17,
Machiavelli asks the reader
"Whether It Is Better
to Be Loved than it is
to be Feared."
Chapter eight
poses the question:
How is it possible for a
person to take a country
by nefarious means
and subsequently live
a tranquil life without
the threat of insurrection
occurring?
The answer is: it is possible
because they were skilled
in employing cruelties,
which assured peace.
Furthermore, in
chapter 17 of the book,
it asserts the following: "It is
better for a ruler to be feared
than loved."
Also, this particular section
makes another point:
When leading an army,
one never needs to be concerned
with one's reputation,
especially for ruthlessness."
However, earlier
in chapter eight,
Machiavelli explains
how acts of cruelty
should be effectively used:
They are to be performed all
at once and never repeated.
Interestingly enough, he stops
short of giving examples
of specific acts or
how much ruthlessness
a leader should be
made to tolerate.
It would be too simple
to merely say:
"Kill all of your enemies."
If you carefully read the
examples that Machiavelli
does give, you'll notice
the targets of these acts
of cruelty.
They're not always adversaries,
but often one's own allies.
According to the philosopher,
an apt ruler
must purge informers,
opportunists,
all treacherous insiders.
And this act must be
carried out all at once.
Even though it may
appear cruel to others,
it must be done
regardless of opinion.
It's all right.
They're under my command.
You could've told us!
Huh?
Carmi--
Aisha, put your sword away.
But what about--
That's Kagetora.
Leader of the Black Cats,
an intelligence unit that
reports directly to me.
Contact the Forbidden
Army members
stationed outside
their residences.
Instruct them to seize
all relevant evidence.
If they meet resistance,
have it put down.
Majesty.
I hope it's not too much to ask,
but could you explain
what just happened?
The traitors were executed.
All 12 of them.
They worked with Amidonia
and other nations.
They were nothing more
than weathervanes, sadly,
pointing in the direction
of the strongest wind.
Yes.
While people may
call my actions cruel,
it was necessary in my eyes.
The disease needed
to be cut out.
Even so, those 12 houses have
long served the royal family.
Some have served the
kingdom for generations,
at least on the surface.
But the reality is they
conspired with other countries
behind the king's back.
When suspicions arose,
they'd sow discontent
to distract investigations
from themselves.
That was the true
nature of these people.
All I know is if anything were
to happen to the ones I love,
Liscia, Aisha, and Juna,
and they ended up
getting hurt as a result,
I would have regretted
not taking such measures
until my death.
[SOUMA] Returning to
Machiavelli, he also says
the following in The Prince:
Fortune is a kind of force
that cannot be
completely governed by us.
It rules over half the
actions in our lifetimes.
However, one should
also be aware,
the other half rests entirely
within our own hands.
That while we can't prevent
sudden changes of fate,
if we could just
prepare ahead of time
and take necessary action,
then we could also be able
to mitigate our destiny.
Change its course.
Look. I understand
your thinking, Souma.
But what do we do about
House Saracen and Jabana?
We have uncovered
information regarding them.
The heads of the two
families you see before you
were also in league
with the other 12.
Yes, but you've left out
one important detail.
However, that ended with
the current generation.
Piltory and Owen have
proven themselves
by cutting all ties
with the traitors.
Piltory, despite his youth,
excels in the military
and literary arts, and Owen
is a man possessing
both honesty and passion.
They'll serve the
kingdom with loyalty
and no ulterior motives.
We pledge absolute
fealty to Your Majesty.
Please.
I've never been
huge on formality.
[laughs]
I must say,
it is amusing.
Imagine if we had remained
silent or had sided
with the other 12 houses.
Then our heads would
no longer be attached
to our necks either.
Well, since you brought it up,
if that was the course
you had chosen,
I was to provoke
the two of you--
to try to make you angry.
Then, if you pandered
to His Majesty
like the other 12, he would
not have much use for you.
I don't think it's necessary
to explain further.
[laughs]
Why, certainly not!
Best left to the
imagination, I say.
You really thought
this through that far?
Majesty. It is time.
I'm ready.
First is Castor Vargas, for
rebelling against my ultimatum.
You are guilty of treason.
I committed this crime and the
entirety of it rests with me.
I beg you, at least
show mercy to Carla!
You're not the one who
gets to decide her fate.
I will judge you!
And frankly, there's no other
verdict that could be reached.
However, certain
considerations must be made.
You have defended the
kingdom for over a century.
Your service is unparalleled.
Therefore, I will
spare your life.
You will be remanded
over to Excel.
Also, your entry into
the former Duchy of Vargas
is forbidden.
As is any further contact
with your son, Carl,
and his mother, Accela.
Excel, it was your son-in-law
who committed this crime.
I'd watch him closely.
Sire, yes.
I shall abide by your
command without fail.
[SOUMA] Carla, you are
equally as guilty.
You also lack your father's
distinguished history,
so your sentence
can't be reduced.
I expected not.
If that's your judgment,
kill me!
My daughter's only crime
was turning against you
at her father's direction!
I beg you!
Strip away my merits
and give them to her!
Take him away.
Let me go!
Sire! I beg you!
At least spare
my daughter's life!
Let me die in her place!
Let her live!
There's no denying
your involvement.
But, given your role,
death would be unjust.
Huh?
[SOUMA] While your life
will be spared, your status
will be reduced
to that of a slave.
You'll be owned
by the royal family.
Meaning, Liscia and myself.
Yes, sire.
[SOUMA] Further
instructions will follow,
but for the time being,
I have one order
that cannot wait.
I'll carry it out.
If I ever go astray,
do not hesitate.
You strike me down.
The day that I become a tyrant,
it'll be your job, Carla.
You will have to
end to my reign.
That's a huge weight to bear.
So why trust me?
Because Liscia and the
others might not be able
to do it.
There may come a
time when I lose clarity,
growing increasingly
drunk on power.
And it frightens me.
I'm worried whether or
not Liscia and the others
would stop me
in time, or at all.
That's why, Carla,
you have to be the one.
The person who takes my life
before I bring sorrow to myself,
as well as those dearest to me.
You have my promise.
I shall abide by your command.
And with that, your
judgment has been decided!
[SOUMA sighs]
--Souma!
--Your Majesty!
It's nothing.
I'm just a little tired,
I suppose.
But you almost--
I told you, I'm fine.
I'd just like to be
left alone for a bit.
To be honest, the way
His Majesty faltered,
it was like a soldier returning
from his first battle.
After killing someone
for the first time.
When Souma had those 12
noblemen executed in there,
it was clear he
wasn't his usual self.
Tell me, Aisha.
How would you support
a soldier who has just
experienced killing someone?
Well, let me see.
I've never been a
part of the military,
so I'm not an expert
in these matters.
But something I often
hear is you should try
and take their mind off of it.
How would we do that, though?
Hmm.
I just got an idea, but I'll
need your help pulling it off.
[SOUMA] When you commit
your acts of cruelty,
do it all at once.
A ruler never needs to be
concerned with his reputation
when it comes to ruthlessness.
He must dare to choose fighting
unless he wishes to perish.
And when his time does come,
and he has regrets of what
he should have done,
it'll be too late.
I understand what Machiavelli
was writing about,
but I'm having second
thoughts about my decision.
Whether it was right.
Huh?! Just what do you
two think you're doing?
I...
I'm sorry, but I thought
I told you I needed
to be left alone.
[LISCIA] Just look at
the state you're in.
We can't leave you alone
when you're like this.
[AISHA]
B-Beg your pardon, Your Majesty.
Could either one of you explain
what's going on right now?
Well, you know, we're helping.
Helping you forget about
what happened earlier.
Yeah?
Okay, look!
You're free to do whatever
you want with us, all right?
Whatever is fine!
But you should know
this is my first time
doing anything like this.
Though I'm certain Your Majesty
will be most cordial!
This is a lot to lay on
someone all of a sudden,
don't you think?
I mean what're you suggesting?
[LISCIA] If you don't mind,
Souma, it's a bit cold.
Can we get under
the covers with you?
Your hand is freezing.
I wanted to confess something.
I thought that I knew
the kind of weight
you had to carry
on your shoulders.
At least I felt that,
until today.
Every time you have a
difficult choice to make,
it's a painful experience
for you, isn't it?
But we're family.
Isn't that what you called us?
We can't let you carry the
weight of that responsibility
all by yourself.
Don't treat us like
strangers, Your Majesty.
Why have a first queen
and second queen
if you'll only push us away?
I mean, I'm not officially
second queen yet, but...
You were always
there to support us.
To comfort and lift us up
during the hard times.
So let us return the favor
and do the same for you.
Listen, you two.
Yes, Souma?
What is it?
[SOUMA]
This is nice.
[ROROA] He actually agreed to
pay reparations to get back Van?
Is my brother that
big of a moron?
And where does he think
that money's coming from?
The elderly in town are
going to suffer the most!
He could've just let
the kingdom have it.
That way, Julius
would have avoided
any post-war accountability.
Possibly, yes.
Considering the principality
hadn't been entirely defeated,
if he had left the
territory the way it was,
likely neither Elfrieden
nor the empire
would have put on
such a show of force.
Had he been more patient,
we might have been able
to make an additional move.
In theory, yes, but it
may not be as simple
as you're making it out to be.
We'll never know.
You met Souma once,
isn't that right, Sebastian?
After seeing him up close,
what's your opinion?
Well, let me think for a minute.
On the outside, he appeared
to be an ordinary young man,
one who openly lends
an ear to other's views
regardless of their position.
What struck me upon
first meeting him
was how he genuinely
seemed to care for those
who were close to him.
He's the complete
opposite of everything
my father represented.
Which may provide us
with the perfect chance.
The ideal opponent to pull
off my greatest gamble!
I have waited for this!
But Princess, are you sure
you want to take that risk?
This is how things
get back on track.
From now on, no more letting
that idiot brother of mine
or Souma run the show.
We'll be the ones
who get the last laugh!
There's no backing down now.